Hi, I'm Pastor Torrin Brooks and welcome to Faith Christian Church.
So glad you decided to join us today.
For the next 30 minutes, we're gonna be looking through God's Word and finding ways for it to apply to our lives today.
Hope you enjoy this morning sermon.
We have been talking for the last several weeks, or at least last week, about Jesus' final words on the cross.
I believe with all my heart that there are some great lessons on commitment that we can learn through
looking at what Jesus did and what He said and how He said it.
And take some lessons to apply to our own lives today.
I really believe that there is a necessity of the church as a whole to go back and re-learn and re-study the words of Jesus.
Because there's something powerful about the words He spoke on this earth.
I really feel like we can draw some great lessons from that and I want to do that again the day in for the next several weeks.
In Luke, the 23rd chapter, starting in verse number 39, the Bible says this, then one of the criminals who were hanging blasphemed him saying, if you are the Christ, save yourself and us.
But the other answering rebuked him saying, do you not even fear God?
seeing you are under the same condemnation.
And we indeed justly for we received the due reward of our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong.
Then he said to Jesus, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom.
Jesus said to him, surely I say to you today, you will be with me in paradise.
Pray one more time.
They're heavenly father.
Lord, for the next few moments will you really open our hearts and our minds to this word today.
Make it real and powerful to us and help us to learn what it means to be committed to stand.
And we'll thank you for it.
In Jesus' name, amen.
If I can set the story for you, you already know that Jesus has already gone from Yosemite to Pilate, from Pilate to Herod, back to Pilate.
And in this time in Pilate's court,
Pilate has come out with these incredible words.
When Pilate sees Jesus and hears his testimony, he eventually comes out and declares to the crowd that I find no fault with him.
None.
At that moment in time, if Pilate had been a man of any sort and had been a just ruler, he would have let Jesus go.
Now, obviously, Pilate didn't have in his mind the understanding of what Jesus was really
trying to do and what he was doing through this story and through his life.
He didn't realize that the game was already set, that he was just another piece of the puzzle, piece of the situation, and that even though he was going to find a way to release Jesus, he had to play his part, so to speak, in all this.
I don't know if the two thieves that were hanging next to Jesus were in the Pilate's judgment hall that day,
But it's probably a good understanding that they were, because it was from this place where Pilate was that they led Jesus and these other criminals to the place they were going to kill them.
I don't know if the one criminal had heard Pilate's judgment of finding no fault in him or not, but it seems that some way or another this man who was hanging next to Jesus, not the one who blasphemed him, but the other, we'll call him the good thief, if you can call a thief good.
The good thief and the bad thief.
Well, the good thief must have heard somewhere along the line, Pilate say, I find no fault in him.
In other words, there was no reason whatsoever for this man to be put to death.
It's not totally unlikely that this man hadn't heard Jesus at some time in his life.
Maybe he was in the temple on the day that Jesus spoke.
Maybe he was in the countryside on the day when Jesus fed the 5,000.
It's not quite uncertain and it might not have been too hard to suggest that this man had actually had an encounter with Jesus at one time or another, but for some reason in his life, he made the choice to steal and that was costing him his life.
Now, in order to be able to, for a man to cost his life to steal, he must have stole something very important.
Some theologians say that maybe he stole temple, treasure out of the temple,
where he stole something that was very sacred or important for whatever reason.
Both these criminals were tried.
Both were actually guilty and both were sentenced to die on the same day that Jesus was.
When we come to the story in Luke 23, we find that the man are hanging next to Jesus on the cross.
The crowd you got to remember is down around the feet of Jesus mocking Jesus.
The soldiers are gambling for his clothes.
There's already been comments coming from the crowd.
similar to this.
He saved others, yet he cannot save himself.
Can you imagine hearing that around the cross of Jesus?
Can I just remind you that Jesus had a choice?
He could have saved himself, but he wouldn't have been able to save us.
Because he didn't save himself, he did save us.
And I'm glad he chose.
And I, you know, sometimes we have to make that choice to remind ourselves if we're going to save others, we cannot save ourselves.
Sometimes we have to make the ultimate cause and the ultimate choice.
There was great mocking in the crowd and I guess finally in some sense of a last ditch effort on the bad thief's part, the bad thief looks around and sees that the crowd is in an anti Jesus moment and he decides to join in.
Now, I don't know if in his mind he was thinking that maybe if I join in, they might cut me down.
You know, hey, that guy's not bad.
He's doing the same thing we're doing.
We might as well let him lose.
Well, obviously, that's not going to happen.
But for some reason, he decides, this is what he says.
He looks at him.
He says, if you are the Christ, in other words, if you're the anointed one, if you're the Messiah who's come to save us, he says, save yourself.
us, by the way.
Obviously he had the motive in mind that if this guy is really the Christ, if he is really the savior of all mankind, the Messiah come to overthrow the Romans, the least he could do was let the poor criminal next to him who hasn't been nearly as bad as it could be, let him go.
Although a lot of people like that these days and say, Hey Lord, you know, it wouldn't hurt for you to kind of get me out of the mess I'm in.
Kind of save me from my circumstance.
If you're really God, how many of you have ever heard that?
I hate to even ask this this morning, but some of you may have even said that.
You may have been there in your life.
I know I have.
Confession may not be good for you, but confession is good for me.
And I've been in that place in my life where I've been low enough to say, Lord, if you're really God, get me out of this mess.
Help me.
And I have to remind myself over and over and over again and sometimes remind other people, too, God never promised that He would save us from our circumstance.
He did promise he would be with us in our circumstance, but he never promised to save us from our circumstance.
He only promised that through the shed blood of his son Jesus Christ, he would save our souls and save us from eternal damnation.
He would save us from our sins.
No, I don't know what was going through the mind of the good thief, but obviously he was not happy with the way his condemned fellow thief joined in the crowd.
He wasn't happy with the way that things were going.
He said, listen, I love this.
He rebuked him saying, do you not even fear God?
Now why in the world would asking God, if he's really God hanging on the cross, why would that be?
Do you not even fear God?
Part of the reason why you've not even fear God has to deal with the fact that he's mocking him saying, if you are really the Christ.
Kind of reminds me of the story of the man who went to Jesus, nine disciples who were down at the bottom of the mountain.
Do you remember this story?
His son was demon possessed and sometimes his son would throw himself into the fire and try to kill himself.
And finally, the man was so fed up with the fact that the disciples couldn't heal his son.
He looked at Jesus and said these words, if you can help us, if you can help us.
Well, the reality is, of course he can help us.
And I love what Jesus says.
What do you mean if I can?
All things are possible to those that believe.
If I can, the good thief on the cross was saying to the other thief, listen, it's not a matter if he's God, he is God.
And don't you fear God?
Don't you know that when you put God up and you throw the fleece down in front of God, you're tempting God, and that's not right?
A lot of people say, well, it doesn't hurt to ask.
OK, fine.
It doesn't hurt to ask.
But a lot of people don't do it just to ask.
A lot of people do it to challenge God.
I don't know if you've ever known anybody like that, but I sure have known people that they get up in the morning and they say, God, if you're really real, I want a hundred bucks on my front door.
My favorite was a friend of mine.
He's passed away now, but Richard always used to say, Pastor, I'll believe in God if he lets me win the lottery.
Can you believe that?
That's the kind of things that people put before God.
Not God, can you save my soul?
Not God, can you help out a poor sinner?
God, not can you help it?
God, if you really love me, give me a pony for Christmas.
Not God, help me find enough money to save it, to buy a pony and feed the pony and take the pony to the vet and have it filled big enough for the pony.
No, it's God, just give me what I want.
This thief on the cross that was challenging Jesus wasn't after any kind of reward, but his own skin.
He was trying to save himself.
He didn't really care if Christ saved himself.
He wanted to be saved.
He wanted to get off that cross.
He wanted to be released of his judgment that was on him.
And can I tell you, a lot of people are still that way today.
They love to live the way they want to live, but they don't want to be judged according to God's word.
In fact, I know a lot of people that don't want to hear God's word because they know if they do hear God's word, they're going to be judged according to God's word.
Somebody asked me the other day, how do you feel about this?
How do you feel about that?
And I asked them, what does God's word say?
You want to know what I think about drunkenness?
What does God's word say?
Well, it says that drunkenness is a sin.
Okay, fine.
But that's what does God say the judgment for that is.
I'm not making up these own things on my own.
I'm telling you, I believe what God's word says.
You're not, when you sin, you're not, you're not entitled to pay penance to me.
You have to stand before a holy God one day.
See, the thief that was on the
The sight of Jesus who was rebuking the bad thief says, you're not even fear God seeing you are under the same condemnation.
What condemnation?
The condemnation of the cross.
See, he knew the reality was they all three were going to die that day.
Whether they died from blood loss or whether they died from the shock to their bodies or whether they died from breaking their legs and the collapsing of their lungs, all three men were going to die that day.
And the man who knew he was guilty and knew he deserved to be there, looked at the other man who was trying to get out of it and said, listen, we, for whatever reason, you and I deserve what we've got.
And can I tell you, honestly, if it wasn't for Jesus Christ, we would deserve death too.
So all pastor, I don't think my sins are that bad.
I don't think the things I've done are that bad.
Well, the Bible says all of sin, it comes short of the glory of God.
Everyone has no, not any of us are perfect.
I'm kind of glad I'm not perfect.
I would be held to a much higher standard if I was, but, but think about this.
He said, listen, do you not understand?
We're all going to die and here you are.
Don't you fear God?
He says, listen, you could die at a moment from blood loss and you're mocking a man who is claiming to be the son of God.
Don't you think if you really thought he was the son of God and you really wanted him to save you, you wouldn't be mocking him right before you die.
Strangest to say that some people still do that, even at their deathbed, still mock God.
This is what he goes on to say though.
The good thief says, and we indeed justly for we receive the due reward of our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong.
See, I told you maybe he was in Pilate's court, or maybe he had heard Jesus before, but there was something about Jesus.
Maybe it was when he heard Jesus forgive the people
around him of their sins.
Memory said just before this father forgive them for they don't know what they're doing.
Whenever it was this thief that was by Jesus looks over at him and he says, listen, looks over at the other thief and says, we've done wrong.
We deserve judgment.
This man has done nothing wrong.
And then he makes a statement that is absolutely profound.
Verse 42 says, then he said to Jesus, Lord,
Remember me when you come into your kingdom."
You know, I thought about that for a while.
Where did he hear that phrase?
Well, it's back at Pilate.
Do you remember when Jesus was talking with Pilate?
Pilate asked him, are you a king?
And he says, my kingdom is not of this world.
He relays to Pilate this idea that he is not from here.
He is not a part of this world.
that Jesus is somebody who is different and special.
And this guy says, listen, Lord, remember me.
When you go to your, in other words, Lord, I'm going to die.
You're going to die.
We're all going to die.
But I believe, listen, you're not going to call a person Lord unless you're really subjected to them.
Maybe you don't know that.
Let me, let me, let me, let me challenge your thinking just for a minute and let you think about this for a while.
Bible said Jesus Christ, we refer to Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior a lot of times.
Would you realize most people that call Him Lord don't act like He's Lord?
They don't act like He's Lord of their life.
They don't act like, because if they did, they wouldn't do the things they do.
They wouldn't say the things they say.
When referring to the word Lord as it is in the English language,
Back in the day of the Lord was Lord over all the people that were underneath him when the Lord said, I want you to go and do something.
The people who served under the Lord did it without any thought or any, any idea or any, they didn't say, well, I would love to go out and work in the field.
I'm just, I'm just too tired.
You're just going to have to find somebody else to go.
I'm just too, you know, the drive is just so far to that side of the field.
I just don't know.
Cause you know what would happen to the servant?
who told his Lord that when he'd be killed or two, he'd be cast out.
He'd go find somewhere else.
This man is hanging on the cross next to Jesus, makes a choice to call him Lord, makes a choice to believe.
And he also makes a choice to stand.
Now, obviously he's not physically standing because where is he?
He's nailed on a cross just like Jesus.
And we know in a little while they're going to break his legs so that he'll suffocate and die.
But he makes us stand, maybe morally, maybe spiritually, makes us stand to call Jesus right there on the cross, knowing both of them are going to die.
Lord.
Now this man, if he had known Jesus would have known the prophecies, known what people were saying about him, known that they had called him Messiah and called him King and called him Lord.
And yet here's a man who seems to be failing at all three of those conditions.
Jesus certainly doesn't look like a Lord and a king and a Messiah hanging on the cross.
According to what the Jewish leaders thought their Messiah was supposed to look like.
Do you ever think about that for a minute?
Jesus would have looked the least like a king as he's hanging on a cross with his back ripped open in his head, gushing blood and his swollen face.
and the nails scars in his hands and in his feet.
They really look like a Messiah who's supposed to overthrow the Romans and restore nation Israel.
Hanging up there bleeding and suffocating.
He didn't really look like the Messiah savior of the world as he's dying.
And yet this man hanging next to him sees enough of God and Jesus to call him Lord, even knowing that their futures were
going to be over with in a couple of hours.
He says to him, Lord, remember me when you go into your kingdom.
I can imagine that at the foot of the cross, people gasp when they heard this guy call him Lord.
How dare he?
Both are they thought of Jesus as a criminal.
They thought of him as a criminal.
All these criminals have lost their minds.
Has everybody got to a place where they all just went crazy?
Is the blood all gone?
from their brains.
They're talking about kingdoms and Lordship and they're dying on the cross.
But Jesus see over in Matthew chapter 10 made a promise.
Did you know that?
Let me read it for you.
Matthew chapter 10 in verse number 32.
This is what it says.
Therefore, whoever confesses me before men, him I will also confess before my Father who is in heaven.
But whoever denies me before men, I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven.
See, all the way back in Matthew, Jesus had made a promise.
This is His promise.
If you confess me before men, I'll confess you before my Father.
So it makes total sense what Jesus says next.
After all, this man called him Lord.
He looks over to the man and says, surely I say to you.
In other words, he's looking at him and says, I make you a promise.
Well, what promise is that?
The promise he made before.
He'd already made the promise.
He had already made testament to it in Matthew, early on in his ministry.
If you confess me before a man, I'll confess you before my father.
And so he says, I assure you today, you will be with me in paradise.
Now that sounds like a bold statement for a man who's dying to make, especially a man condemned to blasphemy.
And yet we know Jesus is Lord.
And all of a sudden this man made a statement and said, listen, I want the world to know before I die that I believe that you are who you say you are.
And Jesus said, you know what?
Because you're making that statement and you're saying that, I'll make this statement.
I accept your statement of faith.
And today, guess what?
You're going to be with me in paradise.
What an incredible statement Jesus makes.
But he's fulfilling his promise, see?
He's keeping to his word
He's saying, listen, let me show you that I kept a promise to stand for you if you stand for me.
And he showed it right here on the cross.
He'll do it later again in this, in the life of Steven.
Do you remember this story?
Steven is, is preaching pretty much against temple worship.
And how many, you know, when you get a big, big and mighty and great temple, nobody wants to tear it down because now everybody looks to you for having a temple.
The Jews had just got the temple restored under Herod's rule, and they weren't about to tear it down just because some Jesus came.
But yet, Stephen understood that our bodies are the temple of the Holy Spirit, not some building made by man, but these fleshly bodies made by God or his temple, and that when we worship him with our bodies and worship him with ourselves, we are doing worshiping him in his holy temple.
So we don't need the temple, but Stephen didn't quite put it so simply and made everybody mad.
Some pastors do that.
And so Stephen had made such a fuss that they decided they were going to kill him for what he said and what he believed.
And the visual image that we get that day, according to Luke, the writer of the book of Acts, tells us that if Stephen was standing there about to be stoned to death, he looks up and heaven opens up and he sees Jesus.
And what does he see Jesus doing?
Standing.
I believe with all my heart that the conditions of Matthew chapter 10 are the same the day as they were the day that Jesus was on the cross and they're the same as they were when Stephen and every other person who has stood for Jesus Christ throughout the time.
The real question of the day is how much are we willing to stand for Him?
How much are we willing to declare?
Can I tell you the world has thrown up challenge after challenge after challenge
to the church whether or not we are going to stand for God.
And by and far the church has failed at almost every challenge the world has thrown in our face.
Whether it's been taking God out of schools or taking prayer out of schools or whether it's been them telling kids they can't wear a Christian t-shirts to class or take their Bibles within the class.
Every time it seems one person makes a ruckus in the entire church world stays silent.
That's always how it is, isn't it?
One person declares they want their sin to be recognized as not sin and the whole church sits there and knows the Word of God.
They know the truth and they just sit there just completely silent because they're afraid they're going to rock the boat.
I got news for you today.
I don't want to rock the boat.
I want to rock the world.
I don't want to, I don't want to, I want to, I want to make waves.
I want to make a whole storm.
See, the problem is that you and I are living in a world that wants somebody to stand for something.
To somebody to make a declaration and to say, I believe in this and not change.
Problem is it's too convenient in our day and age to say, yes, I believe in this and then tomorrow we can't change and do something else.
Pastor, what are you talking about?
Oh, just look at C-SPAN.
Look at Congress.
One day Congress stands for this, the next day they stand for that.
Or somebody will say, well, I used to believe this, but I've kind of... Well, I've kind of gotten more mature in my life, and now I realize I was wrong.
You know the sad thing is, I see pastors every single year that do the same thing.
They'll believe in this Word until it doesn't suit them, or it doesn't help them anymore, and then they'll just quit.
And say, I don't believe in it anymore, or I don't believe part of it anymore.
And the world is looking for people to say, listen, if you really believe this is the best selling book of all time, why don't you do what it says?
Why don't you stand for what it believes?
Well, Pastor, you just don't understand the turmoil that's going to cause.
Yeah, I do.
Because every major person in history that stood up for the Word of God has either been killed or been brutally, brutally beaten or they've been slandered.
They've been thrown in the mud.
Listen, look at people like Martin Luther.
All right?
Decides that maybe it's not right for people to bow down and pray the statues of saints.
Maybe it's not right for people to bow down and pray.
Maybe it's not right for the church to be able to say you're forgiven when the church doesn't have the power to forgive sins.
Only God has the power to forgive sins.
You don't get your sin forgiven for getting a name on a sheet of paper because of your donation.
You get forgiven of your sins because you ask Christ to forgive you of your sins.
Boy, they throw him in jail.
They chase after him.
They threaten him with death.
We get off easy sometimes when we say, well, you know, I go to church.
You know?
So proud of ourselves.
Going to church doesn't mean anything anymore.
I know a lot of people that are sinners that go to church.
I'm talking about taking a stand for something.
Say, I believe, and what the Bible says, I believe Jesus Christ is Lord.
And I live my life according to this book.
I live my life according to his words, trying to live by his rules, trying to stay in according to his scripture and trying not to sin.
Most people come to me and say, pastor, if I stand up for righteousness and I stand up for God's word and I declare Jesus as Lord, you don't know the firestorm that's going to cause in my family.
Yes, I do.
I know exactly the kind of firestorm it causes.
So a lot of times I have family members that won't talk to me.
My family won't talk to cousins and extended family won't talk to me.
Why?
Because they know I believe in the truth of God's word.
They know when I see them face to face, I'm going to call them out on their sins.
And not that I'm rubbing it in their face, mind you, but I don't want any listen to me.
Can we disagree on something?
I hope you agree with this, too.
I don't want any of my family to go to hell.
I don't want any of my family.
I want every single cousin, second cousin, third cousin twice removed.
I want all of my family.
I even want my birth parents to go to heaven.
Yeah, they abandoned me, but that doesn't mean that God can't forgive that.
Doesn't mean that I don't want to see them in heaven one day.
But the thing that we have to realize is when we don't stand, there are consequences.
When we don't take a stand for Jesus, there are choices that lead to even dire consequences.
Matthew 10 says, listen, there's a flip side of if you stand for me, I'll stand for you.
And the flip side is if you don't stand for me, I'll deny you.
No, I don't know about you, but I don't like being denied.
Whether it's credit, whether it's friend request on Facebook, I don't like to be denied.
But the last place I want to be denied is in front of Jesus.
I want to be denied in front of him.
And even at this last moment, as this guy is sitting there in his last breath, he looks over at Jesus says, I believe you are, you say you are.
Lord, remember me.
Jesus goes, I'll do you one better because you called me Lord.
Not only will I remember you all take you with me.
I'm reminded of the story when Dr. Martin Luther King was traveling abroad and he had a young man with him.
a young preacher with him and everybody knew Dr. King, but I didn't know this other young man who was traveling with him.
When they got to the checkpoint at the airport, everyone was going through and the people at the security place weren't sure of this young man, this young preacher who he was.
Dr. King turned around and said, don't worry about that, he's with me.
And they let him through.
When they got to the country, they went before
The king and queen of that country in Africa, when they were there, all of a sudden this man was starting to get left behind and push back to the side and just, whoa, whoa, wait.
No, no, he's with me.
And they let him through.
I hate to get all the way to the gates of heaven.
And here Jesus say, I don't know who that is.
Depart from me, I never knew you.
Do you realize that
In the coming day in which we live, it's going to be harder and harder to live for Him.
Harder and harder to stand.
I'm sorry, but in a day and age when most people think it's okay for people to live whatever lifestyle they want to live, I got news for you.
Christians need to take a stand.
Pastor, I'll make all my neighbors mad at me.
Okay, it's going to happen one way or the other.
Eventually eventually if you okay one lifestyle you'll have to okay all lifestyles and eventually you'll have to look at God's Word and close the book and never look at it again Because you'll have to ignore sin Bible says we're not to ignore sin Bible says he'll judge the he'll judge the unrighteous But we're not to ignore it when people say what do you think about this or what do you think about that?
We should say what does the Bible say?
We stand upon the Word of God.
Well, Pastor, I don't know.
I don't know what all the Bible says.
Well, today is a good day to start.
I encourage you reading Genesis chapter one through 50.
Start there.
See, I think a lot of times we don't want to stand on the Word of God because we're not sure what it says.
Well, I heard by Pastor one time a man said, cleanliness is next to godliness.
I'm sure that's in there.
Well, no, it's not.
Sorry.
But I do know the Bible says this, unless a man be born again, he cannot save the kingdom of God.
I do know it says that.
I do know it says we confess with our mouth the Lord Jesus Christ and believe in our heart that God raised him from the dead will be saved with the heart.
Man believes in the righteousness and with the mouth confessions made in the salvation.
I know it says that.
I know it says sin cannot enter the kingdom of heaven.
I'm telling you that in this day and age, we need people who are willing to be committed to stand.
Thank you for watching today's service, but you really should visit in person.
Service times are at 10 a.m. Sunday morning, 6 p.m. on Sunday evening, and Wednesday night Bible study begins at 7 p.m. We're located at 582 Rockingham Road,
on Route 5 just north of Bellows Falls.
For more information you can visit our website at www.faithchristianag.com.
God bless you and have a great day.